This project was something I've been interested in for a while now; as someone working with 3D, all the fancy websites online featuring 3D renders stood out to me. The fact that web browsers are beginning to have full rendering functionality was really cool, and I wanted to see if this was feasible in my own personal projects.

First was to figure out what libraries I could use. There seemed to be two main options; three.js and babylon.js. From my research, three was used in more design and showcase websites and babylon was used for more interactive applications, so I went with three. I had an existing model, but the format that is preferred by browsers was something different from what I had, so I had to install a Maya plugin made by Babylon to export my model in a glTF format.

From there, I started to get into the three.js documentation; thankfully, they have pretty extensive documentation that walks the user through installing the correct libraries. The main libraries I used were three for rendering and vite for local hosting and building, but the latter gave me a lot of headache later in the project. 

Learning three.js is like learning a new rendering program; it has a lot of the features that you'd expect from a renderer, though it's a lot less user friendly as many of the variables had to be found through trial-and-error javascript editing rather than real-time in an interface. Importing the model was fairly simple, but the biggest problem was lighting; three's stock lighting was very basic, and it took a lot of tweaking to get any shading at all. I eventually used hdri lighting, mapping it to the environment to get some higher-quality reflections. 

From there, I built out my keyframing script and camera motion, which took some trial and error. I have four set camera positions and a keyframe variable that I iterate through based on mouse click, which also controls the text fade in and out. I initially wanted to have the camera motion controlled by scrolling, but this was hard to implement with my limited javascript experience. It's definitely a feature that I feel would take the experience to the next level, and something I'm interested in the future. I also noticed that resizing the window would break the renderer, so I added a responsive function that resizes the viewport when the window size is changed.

Deploying the project to github was actually one of the hardest parts of the project, and it took multiple online tutorials, editing config files, and dozens of commits to finally get it running on github pages. The problem I ran into was that documentation online is inconsistent, especially because there are multiple ways to deploy to github pages. Eventually, I figured out my problems mainly stemmed from file structure and my config files, and I was able to get it hosted.

Given more time, I would have played around more with postprocessing and lighting to make my model look better. Another thing I noticed was that my model textures looked very different in browser than in my preferred rendering programs, so retexturing the model to look best in browser was something I would have done without time constraints. Finally, mobile was something I really wasn't able to tackle, so that would also be something to look at in the future.